---
layout: post
title:  "Menu Exits"
author: sal
categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/menu.jpeg
tags: featured
date: 2020-05-21
---
As the name suggests <b>Menu Exits</b> allows you to add your own functions to the pull down menus in the SAP standard transactions. In simple terms, when you click any button in Menubar( Utilties, Edit, System etc.) you get few drop down options, you just have to add your customer menus there according to the requirement. Now just adding items in the drop down menus is not enough you have to specify the functionality of those items too.

## Lets understand this via an example: 
After executing SE38 you want to navigate to Display user (SU01D) transaction and you want to put that menu option just below the 'Utilities->Versions'. So your first requirement is to find out which Menu Exit will help you out to achieve this functionality. Before finding the Menu Exit we have to find out the Package name of the SE38. I hope you have went through my previous posts and know how to find package name for any given T-code? If you don't 
<a href="/function-module-exit#exactline">Click here.</a> 

So now we know the package name i.e SEDI. Now we have to find the Menu Exit for this package.

## How to identify the Menu Exit based on package?

1. Execute SMOD T-code.
2. Click on find button on Toolbar or go to Utilities->find in Menubar.
3. Give the package name and execute. You'll see a list of Exit name so now after going through the description we can identify the correct Customer Exit.

Here for our case <b>SEUED001</b> will be used, you can check the description if you want &#128512;.

## How to implement a Menu Exit?

1. Go to CMOD T-code and create a new project starting with 'Z'.
2. Click on Enhancement Assignment and provide our Exit name (SEUED001) and press enter.
3. Go to component window and double click on required Menu Exit, here in our case that is 'SAPLS38E +PGE'. One popup will appear and you can add the extra menu option that you want to add( e.g "Go to SU01D").
4. Now we have to add the functionality to this extra menu option also. Hence double click on Function Exit EXIT_SAPLLOCAL_EDT1_002(Don't ask me how I knew this, sometimes you have to try and check which Function Exit will work if you don't know which one to use) and write your logic in the include ZXSEUU25.

{% highlight ruby %}

SET PARAMETER ID 'XUS' FIELD sy-uname.

CALL TRANSACTION 'SU01D'.
{% endhighlight %}

Note: Set parameter is optional.