---
layout: post
title:  "A Roadmap to understand CDS Views"
author: sal
categories: [ CDS ]
image: assets/images/cds.jpeg
date: 2020-06-22
---
When it comes to accessing Database Management System(DBMS) from within an application programming, the `Structured Query Language(SQL)` has established itself as a kind of first choice. Now I won't go in detail of SQL and its sublanguages `Data Manipulation Language(DML), Data Definition Language(DDl) and Data Control Language(DCL)` you can find a lot on these topics on internet.

ABAP is an application programming langugage and it uses SQL features by using `Open SQL`, the SQL variant that is built-in into the ABAP language. In principle, only the DML part(i.e SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE statements) of SQL is available to an ABAP program at runtime. Since ABAPers are not supposed to issue DDL statements at runtime to create any database tables or views as they use form-based editors for table and view definition. The reason is that ABAP is `database independent` hence during activation of these objects, the system creates database-specific DDL statements and sends them to database. Also the DCL statements are not needed in ABAP because in classical approach of ABAP, all tasks covered by DCL (`GRANT` and `REVOKE` statements i.e. to provide access or revoke access on the database objects to the users) are kept away from database.

## Limitations of Open SQL in ABAP before 7.40
Open SQL not only restricts itself to the DML part of the SQL but when you look at the standard SQL, many DML features described there are missing from the open SQL.
1. No Expressions
2. Limited JOIN types
3. No UNION and UNION ALL statements
4. For ABAP dictionary views : Calculation expressions, aggregation, grouping functions are not supported and also the nested views( on views ) are not possible because of performance issues.

The reason behind these limitations are that Open SQL wants to be database independent, not only regarding syntax but more importantly regrding the results. Open SQL wants to provide same results on all database with the same query. Another reason for these limitation is that through ABAP programming, keep the unnecesasry load away from the database because of performance issues.

## `WHAT CHANGED AFTER ABAP 7.40?`
Since the release of ABAP 7.40, SAP HANA is fully supported by the ABAP systems and to benefit from SAP HANA's capabilities, it is necessary to change the programming paradigm(i.e. `Data to Code` : Get all the data to the application server and do the processing ) and traditional application design(combination of application server, database and a simple presentation layer, all the logic is located on application server).

## `WHY CDS?`
With the dawn of SAP HANA and the possibility to develop application directly on the database, not using application server anymore, the need arose to create a meta model repository directly on the database.

Hence the `Core Data Services` is needed for defining and consuming semantically rich data models. Core Data services has enhanced Data Definition Language to define semantically rich database tables/views(`CDS Entities`) and user defined types in the database.
Some of the enhancements are:
1. `Expressions :` Used for calculations and queries in the data model.
2. `Associations : `Replacing joins with simple path expressions in queries.
3. `Annotations :` To enrich the data model with additional (domain specific) metadata.

I'll discuss these topics in detail in further blogs.

There are two `types of CDS views` : From the begining, CDS was not designed for SAP HANA alone. The ABAP application servershould be able to be benefitted from the enhanced cpabilities offered by the DDL of CDS compared to form-based ABAP Dictionary tools. So `ABAP CDS` and `HANA CDS` are the types of CDS  views. I'll be discussing mostly ABAP CDS in further blogs.

The HANA CDS and ABAP CDS are similar but not equal. As HANA CDS is located on SAP HANA directly  hence it can use the unique features of the HANA database easily whereas ABAP CDS is database independent and is located on application server and is part of ABAP transport system, lifecycle management etc.

## `Capabilities of ABAP CDS`
On a purely technical level, ABAP CDS Views provide the following additional capabilities compared to ABAP Dictionary Views:
<br>● Enhanced support for combining queries, such as UNION and OUTER joins
<br>● Support for calculations that use expressions in the column list and for selection
<br>● Aggregation and grouping in the data model
<br>● Nested views (View-on-View)

In ABAP CDS there are two repository objects introduced:
1. `Data Definition` : contains definition of CDS views or CDS Table Function.
2. `Access Control`  : contains the definition of authorization rules that are automaticaly checked when a program access a certain CDS views or CDS Table Function.

I hope now you've got some idea of basics of CDS views.
Let's create First CDS View <a href="/create-cds-ddl">Click here.</a>

