---
layout: post
title:  "AMDP"
author: sal
categories: [ Screen Programming ]
image: assets/images/amdp.jpeg
tags: [sap abap]
date: 2020-09-17
---
I hope in my previous blog of ABAP on HANA series you might have gone through the CDS views concepts. In this blog I'll explain another Code Pushdown approach that is `AMDP`-`A`BAP `M`anaged `D`atabase `P`rocedure. I'll try to explain What is AMDP, WHY AMDP is needed, its pros and cons, its advantage over CDS views or When to use AMDP.

## <code class="highlighter-rouge">AMDP - INTRODUCTION</code>
AMDP is a class based framework for managing and calling stored procedures as AMDP procedures in AS(Application Server) ABAP.
<br><span class="mygreencolor"><b>Stored Procedure or Database Procedures</b></span> are subroutines that can contain one or more SQL statements that perform a specific task. They can be used for data validation, access control, or to reduce network traffic between clients and the DBMS servers. Extensive and complex business logic can be embedded into the subroutine, thereby offering better performance.
<br>Class based framework means that the database procedures will be written inside AMDP method( same as ABAP method ) of an AMDP class( sames as ABAP class but with the interface `IF_AMDP_MARKER_HDB` ). Theoretically interface name can be `IF_AMDP_MARKER_XXX`, where 'XXX' can be other database name(HDB means Hana DataBase), as AMDP is designed to work in any database.

<br><span class="mygreencolor"><b>Points to remember for AMDP:</b></span>
1. Creating and editing AMDP class or method can only be done in Eclipse ADT, you can only view AMDP class and method in SE24.
2. Constructors cannot be implemented as AMDP method.
3. AMDP class can have both AMDP as well as normal method.
4. Parameters passed to the AMDP method can only be <b>Pass by Value.</b> Pass by Reference is not permitted.
5. <b>RETURN</b> parameters cannot be used in AMDP method, instead you can use <b>CHANGING</b> parameter to get your desired result.
6. <b>COMMIT</b> and <b>ROLLBACK</b> statements are not permitted inside AMDP method.

<code class="highlighter-rouge">Why AMDP is needed?</code>